Add a demo of Istio mTLS with Vault CA integration (#3886)
istio/istio.io: content/docs/tasks/security/vault-ca/index.md

---
title: Istio Vault CA Integration

> description: Show how to integrate with Vault CA for mutual TLS.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
description: This task shows you how to integrate a Vault Certificate Authority with Istio for mutual TLS.
```

Author: Done.

> description: Tutorial on Istio Vault CA integration and a demo of Istio `mTLS` using certificates from a Vault CA.

Reviewer 2: please replace 'mtls' with mutual TLS to be consistent with other tasks. Here and everywhere in this file

Author: Done.

> description: Tutorial on Istio Vault CA integration and a demo of Istio mutual TLS using certificates from a Vault CA.

Reviewer 3: Let's not use the word "Tutorial" here, that's got a different connotation.
Similar, let's not use "demo". 

I suggest simply:

Show how to integrate with Vault CA for mutual TLS.

Author: Done.

weight: 10
keywords: [security,certificate]
---

> This tutorial walks you through an example of integrating Istio with a Vault CA to issue certificates

Reviewer 4: This task walks you through ...

Reviewer 4: ```
... with a [Vault CA](<link to something about vault>) to issue certificates
```

Author: Done, thanks.

> This task walks you through an example of integrating Istio with a [Vault CA](https://www.vaultproject.io/) to issue certificates

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This task shows you how to integrate a [Vault Certificate Authority (CA)](https://www.vaultproject.io/) with Istio to issue certificates
```

Author: Done.

> to Istio workloads and shows a demo of Istio mutual TLS using certificates issued by a Vault CA.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
for workloads in the mesh. This task includes a demo of Istio mutual TLS using certificates issued by a Vault CA.
```

Author: Done.

Please refer to [Vault Kubernetes auth method](https://www.vaultproject.io/docs/auth/kubernetes.html)
for the configuration instructions.

> ## Install Istio with mutual TLS and SDS enabled

Reviewer 2: Please remove line 23-25

Author: Done.

    {{< /text >}}

1.  Deploy the `httpbin` and `sleep` backends:

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ kubectl apply -f httpbin-injected.yaml
    $ kubectl apply -f sleep-injected.yaml
    {{< /text >}}

## Istio mutual TLS with Vault CA integration

This section demos the use of mutual TLS with the Vault CA integration. In the previous steps,
you enabled mutual TLS for the Istio mesh and the `httpbin` and `sleep` workloads. These workloads receive
certificates from a testing Vault CA. When you send a `curl` request from the `sleep` workload
to the `httpbin` workload, the request goes through a mutual TLS protected channel constructed
with the certificates the Vault CA issued.

>     {{< text bash >}}

Reviewer: This code block is not rendering with bash syntax highlighting. @geeknoid do you know why?

Reviewer 4: lines 114-118 should come after line 122

Author: Done: 1. changed lines 114-118 to come after line 122. 2. rebased to fix the syntax highlighting.

    $ kubectl exec -it $(kubectl get pod -l app=sleep -o jsonpath='{.items[0].metadata.name}') -c sleep -- curl -s -o /dev/null -w "%{http_code}" httpbin:8000/headers
    200
    {{< /text >}}

1.  Send a `curl` request from the `sleep` workload to the `httpbin` workload.
    The request succeeds with a `200` response code if it goes through the
    mutual TLS protected channel constructed with the certificates issued by the Vault CA.

>     {{< text bash >}}

Reviewer: This code block is not rendering with bash syntax highlighting. @geeknoid do you know why?

Reviewer 4: lines 123-127 should come after line 131

Author: Done: 1. changed lines 123-127 to come after line 131. 2. rebased to fix the syntax highlighting.

  value: "istio_ca/sign/istio-pki-role"
{{< /text >}}

> ## Deploy testing workloads

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Deploy workloads for testing
```

Author: Done.

> This section deploys testing workloads `httpbin` and `sleep`. When the sidecar of a

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This section deploys the `httpbin` and `sleep` workloads for testing. When the sidecar of a
```

Author: Done.

testing workload requests a certificate through SDS, Node Agent will send
certificate signing requests to Vault.

> 1.  Generate the deployment for an example `httpbin` backend and an example `sleep` backend:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1.  Generate the deployments for the `httpbin` and `sleep` backends:
```

Author: Done.

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ istioctl kube-inject -f @samples/httpbin/httpbin-vault.yaml@ > httpbin-injected.yaml
    $ istioctl kube-inject -f @samples/sleep/sleep-vault.yaml@ > sleep-injected.yaml
    {{< /text >}}

> 1.  Create a service account `vault-citadel-sa`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1.  Create the `vault-citadel-sa` service account for the Vault CA:
```

Author: Done.

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ kubectl create serviceaccount vault-citadel-sa
    {{< /text >}}

> 1.  Edit the service account `vault-citadel-sa` to use an example JWT token that has been configured

Reviewer: Start with the conditional phrase to help readers determine upfront whether or not they want to proceed:
```suggestion
1.  Since the Vault CA requires the authentication and authorization of Kubernetes service accounts, you must edit the `vault-citadel-sa` service account to use the example JWT configured
```

Author: Done.

> on the testing Vault CA. The reason of this configuration is that a Vault CA requires authentication

Reviewer: ```suggestion
on the testing Vault CA.
```

Author: Done.

> and authorization of Kubernetes service accounts.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Author: Done.

> For the information about configuring Vault for Kubernetes authentication and authorization,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To learn more about configuring a Vault CA for Kubernetes authentication and authorization,
```

Author: Done.

> please refer to [Vault Kubernetes auth method](https://www.vaultproject.io/docs/auth/kubernetes.html).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
visit the [Vault Kubernetes `auth` method reference documentation](https://www.vaultproject.io/docs/auth/kubernetes.html).
```

Author: Done.

    {{< /text >}}

> 1.  Deploy the example backends:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1.  Deploy the `httpbin` and `sleep` backends:
```

Author: Done.

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ kubectl apply -f httpbin-injected.yaml
    $ kubectl apply -f sleep-injected.yaml
    {{< /text >}}

## Istio mutual TLS with Vault CA integration

> This section provides a demo of Istio mutual TLS with Vault CA integration. With the previous steps,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This section demos the use of mutual TLS with the Vault CA integration. In the previous steps,
```

Author: Done.

> mutual TLS is enabled for the Istio deployment and the testing workloads `httpbin` and `sleep` receive

Reviewer: ```suggestion
you enabled mutual TLS for the Istio mesh and the `httpbin` and `sleep` workloads. These workloads receive
```

Author: Done.

> certificates from the testing Vault CA. When sending a curl request from the `sleep` workload

Reviewer: ```suggestion
certificates from a testing Vault CA. When you send a `curl` request from the `sleep` workload
```

Author: Done.

> to the `httpbin` workload, the request goes through a mutual TLS protected channel constructed from

Reviewer: ```suggestion
to the `httpbin` workload, the request goes through a mutual TLS protected channel the Vault CA constructed from
```

Author: Done.

> the certificates issued by the Vault CA.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
with the certificates the CA issued.
```

Author: Done.

1.  Send a `curl` request from the `sleep` workload to the `httpbin` workload.

> The request should succeed with a 200 response code since it goes through a mutual TLS protected channel

Reviewer: Remember to indent properly when you have steps with multiple lines. Please move this text after the command. That way, you provide readers with a clear logical chain.

```suggestion
    The request succeeds with a `200` response code if the Vault CA constructed the
    mutual TLS protected channel properly.
```

Author: Done.

> constructed from the certificates issued by the Vault CA.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Author: Done.

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ kubectl exec -it $(kubectl get pod -l app=sleep -o jsonpath='{.items[0].metadata.name}') -c sleep -- curl -s -o /dev/null -w "%{http_code}" httpbin:8000/headers
    200
    {{< /text >}}

> 1.  Send a `curl` request from the `sleep` Envoy sidecar to the `httpbin` workload.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1.  To verify that not all requests are successful, send a `curl` 
    request from the `sleep` Envoy sidecar to the `httpbin` workload.
```

Author: Done.

> The request should fail because the `httpbin` requires a mutual TLS connection while the request

Reviewer: Please move this text after the command. That way, you provide readers with a clear logical chain.

```suggestion
    The request fails because the request from the sidecar to the `httpbin` workload did not use mutual TLS.  
```

Author: Done.

from the sidecar does not use mutual TLS.

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ kubectl exec -it $(kubectl get pod -l app=sleep -o jsonpath='{.items[0].metadata.name}') -c istio-proxy -- curl -s -o /dev/null -w "%{http_code}" httpbin:8000/headers
    000command terminated with exit code 56
    {{< /text >}}

> 1.  After finishing the above demo, you have completed the task in this

Reviewer: This should not be a step. Finish the task on a positive note and point readers to additional resources:

```suggestion
**Congratulations!** You successfully integrated a Vault CA with Istio to use mutal TLS
between workloads using the certificates the Vault CA issued.
```

Author: Done.

> document, which integrates Istio with an external Vault CA and demonstrates

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Author: Done.

> Istio mutual TLS with the certificates issued from the Vault CA.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Author: Done.

  value: "istio_ca/sign/istio-pki-role"
{{< /text >}}

## Deploy testing workloads

This section deploys testing workloads `httpbin` and `sleep`. When the sidecar of a
testing workload requests a certificate through SDS, Node Agent will send
certificate signing requests to Vault.

1.  Generate the deployment for an example `httpbin` backend and an example `sleep` backend:

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ istioctl kube-inject -f @samples/httpbin/httpbin.yaml@ > httpbin-injected.yaml
    $ istioctl kube-inject -f @samples/sleep/sleep.yaml@ > sleep-injected.yaml
    {{< /text >}}

1.  Create a service account `vault-citadel-sa`:

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ kubectl create serviceaccount vault-citadel-sa
    {{< /text >}}

> 1.  Edit the service account `vault-citadel-sa` to use an example JWT token that has been configured

Reviewer 2: Can we explain more on this part? Customers may not know the limitation of our vault set up.

Author: Done: added more explanations.

on the testing Vault CA for authentication and authorization:

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ export SA_SECRET_NAME=$(kubectl get serviceaccount vault-citadel-sa -o=jsonpath='{.secrets[0].name}')
    $ kubectl edit secret ${SA_SECRET_NAME}

>     # When editing the secret, change the field "token" to: 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

Reviewer 2: Please explain why we need to change this token.

    {{< /text >}}

> 1.  Edit the `httpbin` deployment to use the service account `vault-citadel-sa`.

Reviewer 2: We are only adding the special service account to the yaml. 

For better user experience, is it possible to create another http-vault.yaml / sleep-vault.yaml with the updated service account so customers don't do anything? Or can we update the secret associated with service account "default" and "sleep" the same way as "vault-citadel-sa", so we don't need to update the yaml files?

Author: Done: created http-vault.yaml and sleep-vault.yaml in the PR https://github.com/istio/istio/pull/12917 so customers do not need to set the service account name. 
As to update the secret associated with service account to be the same as the example JWT, I could not find a way to update the secret through a yaml configuration file.

Reviewer 2: Oh my point was not to update secret through yaml. 

We are using 'default' service account for httpbin.yaml and 'sleep' for sleep.yaml. If we can update the secrets of service accounts 'default' and 'sleep' separately, then we don't need the extra vault-citadel-sa and the extra http-vault.yaml and sleep-vault.yaml. 

I am fine either way, but if we go with adding the new yaml files, we need to add another PR to the master branch.

Author: https://github.com/istio/istio/pull/12922 is created for the master branch.

  value: "istio_ca/sign/istio-pki-role"
{{< /text >}}

## Deploy testing workloads

This section deploys testing workloads `httpbin` and `sleep`. When the sidecar of a
testing workload requests a certificate through SDS, Node Agent will send
certificate signing requests to Vault.

1.  Generate the deployment for an example `httpbin` backend and an example `sleep` backend:

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ istioctl kube-inject -f @samples/httpbin/httpbin-vault.yaml@ > httpbin-injected.yaml
    $ istioctl kube-inject -f @samples/sleep/sleep-vault.yaml@ > sleep-injected.yaml
    {{< /text >}}

> 1.  Create a service account `vault-citadel-sa`:

Reviewer 2: How about 'vault-sa'? Since citadel is not actually in the e2e flow and can be misleading.

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ kubectl create serviceaccount vault-citadel-sa
    {{< /text >}}

1.  Edit the service account `vault-citadel-sa` to use an example JWT token that has been configured
on the testing Vault CA for authentication and authorization.

> When integrating your Vault CA with Istio, you need to configure your Vault CA to enable

Reviewer 2: Replace "When integrating..." with something like "The reason is that Vault CA requires extra configuration in order to authenticate and authorize specific Kubernetes service accounts. And we only configured service account `vault-citadel-sa` in the Vault CA used in this task. For more information about Vault configuration, please refer to [Vault Kubernetes auth method](https://www.vaultproject.io/docs/auth/kubernetes.html)"

Author: Done.

  value: "istio_ca/sign/istio-pki-role"
{{< /text >}}

## Deploy testing workloads

This section deploys testing workloads `httpbin` and `sleep`. When the sidecar of a
testing workload requests a certificate through SDS, Node Agent will send
certificate signing requests to Vault.

1.  Generate the deployment for an example `httpbin` backend and an example `sleep` backend:

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ istioctl kube-inject -f @samples/httpbin/httpbin-vault.yaml@ > httpbin-injected.yaml
    $ istioctl kube-inject -f @samples/sleep/sleep-vault.yaml@ > sleep-injected.yaml
    {{< /text >}}

1.  Create a service account `vault-citadel-sa`:

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ kubectl create serviceaccount vault-citadel-sa
    {{< /text >}}

1.  Edit the service account `vault-citadel-sa` to use an example JWT token that has been configured

> on the testing Vault CA for authentication and authorization.

Reviewer 2: Edit the service account `vault-citadel-sa` to use an example JWT token that has been configured with the testing Vault CA. The reason of this configuration is that a Vault CA requires authentication and authorization of Kubernetes service accounts.

Author: Done.
